Paris
February 17, 1903
Dear Sir,
Your letter arrived just a few days ago. I want to thank you for the great
confidence you have placed in me. That is all I can do. I cannot discuss your
verses; for any attempt at criticism would be foreign to me. Nothing touches a
work of art so little as words of criticism : they always result in more or less
fortunate misunderstandings. Things aren’t all so tangible and sayable as people
would usually have us believe; most experiences are unsayable, they happen in a
space that no word has ever entered, and more unsayable than all other things are
works of art, those mysterious existences, whose life endures beside our own
small, transitory life.
With this note as a preface, may I just tell you that your verses have no style
of their own, although they do have silent and hidden beginnings of something
personal. I feel this most clearly in the last poem, “My Soul.” There, something
of your own is trying to become word and melody. And in the lovely poem “To
Leopardi” a kind of kinship with that great, solitary figure does perhaps appear.
Nevertheless, the poems are not yet anything in themselves, not yet anything
independent, even the last one and the one to Leopardi. Your kind letter, which
accompanied them, managed to make clear to me various faults that I felt in
reading your verses, though I am not able to name them specifically.
You ask whether your verses are any good. You ask me. You have asked others
before this. You send them to magazines. You compare them with other poems,
and you are upset when certain editors reject your work. Now (since you have
said you want my advice) I beg you to stop doing that sort of thing. You are
looking outside, and that is what you should most avoid right now. No one can
advise or help you — no one. There is only one thing you should do. Go into
yourself. Find out the reason that commands you to write; see whether it has
spread its roots into the very depths of your heart; confess to yourself whether
you would have to die if you were forbidden to write. This most of all: ask
yourself in the most silent hour of your night: must I write? Dig into yourself for
a deep answer. And if this answer rings out in assent, if you meet this solemn
question with a strong, simple “I must,” then build your life in accordance with
this necessity; your while life, even into its humblest and most indifferent hour,
must become a sign and witness to this impulse. Then come close to Nature.
Then, as if no one had ever tried before, try to say what you see and feel and love
and lose. Don’t write love poems; avoid those forms that are too facile and
ordinary: they are the hardest to work with, and it takes great, fully ripened
power to create something individual where good, even glorious, traditions exist
in abundance. So rescue yourself from these general themes and write about
what your everyday life offers you; describe your sorrows and desires, the
thoughts that pass through your mind and your belief in some kind of beauty —
describe all these with heartfelt, silent, humble sincerity and, when you express
yourself, use the Things around you, the images from your dreams, and the
objects that you remember. If your everyday life seems poor, don’t blame it;
blame yourself; admit to yourself that you are not enough of a poet to call forth
its riches; because for the creator there is not poverty and no poor, indifferent
place. And even if you found yourself in some prison, whose walls let in none of
the world’s sounds—wouldn’t you still have your childhood, that jewel beyond
all price, that treasure house of memories? Turn your attentions to it. Try to raise
up the sunken feelings of this enormous past; your personality will grow
stronger, your solitude will expand and become a place where you can live in the
twilight, where the noise of other people passes by, far in the distance. — And if
out of this turning-within, out of this immersion in your own world, poems
come, then you will not think of asking anyone whether they are good or not.
Nor will you try to inte4rest magazines in these works: for you will see them as
your dear natural possession, a piece of your life, a voice from it. A work of art is
good if it has arisen out of necessity. That is the only way one can judge it. So,
dear Sir, I can’t give you any advice but this: to go into yourself and see how deep
the place is from which your life flows; at its source you will find the answer to
the question whether you must create. Accept that answer, just as it is given to
you, without trying to interpret it. Perhaps you will discover that you are called
to be an artist. Then take the destiny upon yourself, and bear it, its burden and
its greatness, without ever asking what reward might come from outside. For the
creator must be a world for himself and must find everything in himself and in
Nature, to whom his whole life is devoted.
But after this descent into yourself and into your solitude, perhaps you will
have to renounce becoming a poet (if, as I have said, one feels one could live
without writing, then one shouldn’t write at all). Nevertheless, even then, this
self-searching that I as of you will not have been for nothing. Your life will still
find its own paths from there, and that they may be good, rich, and wide is what
I wish for you, more than I can say.
What else can I tell you? It seems to me that everything has its proper
emphasis; and finally I want to add just one more bit of advice: to keep growing,
silently and earnestly, through your while development; you couldn’t disturb it
any more violently than by looking outside and waiting for outside answers to
question that only your innermost feeling, in your quietest hour, can perhaps
answer.
It was a pleasure for me to find in your letter the name of Professor Horacek;
I have great reverence for that kind, learned man, and a gratitude that has lasted
through the years. Will you please tell him how I feel; it is very good of him to
still think of me, and I appreciate it.
The poems that you entrusted me with I am sending back to you. And I
thank you once more for your questions and sincere trust, of which, by answering
as honestly as I can, I have tried to make myself a little worthier than I, as a
stranger, really am.
Yours very truly,
Rainer Maria Rilke